   
   A () The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets. The
   capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also the
   small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter, etc., are
   all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from the Greek
   Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first letter (/) of
   the Phoenician alphabet, the equivalent of the Hebrew Aleph, and itself
   from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a consonant letter, with a
   guttural breath sound that was not an element of Greek articulation;
   and the Greeks took it to represent their vowel Alpha with the a sound,
   the Phoenician alphabet having no vowel symbols.

   A () The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in C),
   or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the scale
   in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A in the
   treble staff. -- A sharp (A/) is the name of a musical tone
   intermediate between A and B. -- A flat (A/) is the name of a tone
   intermediate between A and G.

   A () An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and
   signifying one or any, but less emphatically.

   A () In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred
   pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc.

   A (prep.) In; on; at; by.

   A (prep.) In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal
   substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a shortened
   form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel sound); as
   in a hunting, a building, a begging.

   A () Of.

   A () A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and of
   they.

   A () An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter

   A- () A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from various sources.
   (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms of AS. on),
   denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep, aground,
   aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble, etc. (2)
   AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofd/ne off the dun or hill). (3) AS.
   a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving an intensive force, and
   sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as in arise, abide, ago. (4) Old
   English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS. inseparable particle ge-,
   cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-), which, as a prefix, made no
   essential addition to the meaning, as in aware. (5) French a (L. ad
   to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab, abs, from, as in avert. (7)
   Greek insep. prefix / without, or privative, not, as in abyss, atheist;
   akin to E. un-.

   A 1 () A registry mark given by underwriters (as at Lloyd's) to ships
   in first-class condition. Inferior grades are indicated by A 2 and A 3.

   Aam (n.) A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different
   cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36 1/2, at
   Hamburg 38 1/4.

   Aard-vark (n.) An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat
   resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows
   in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its
   long, slimy tongue.

   Aard-wolf (n.) A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South
   Africa, resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

   Aaronic (a.) Alt. of Aaronical

   Aaronical (a.) Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

   Aaron's rod () A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing
   from the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

   Aaron's rod () A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great
   mullein, or hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

   Ab- () A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away
   , separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-(6).

   Ab (n.) The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the
   ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,
   coinciding nearly with August.

   Abaca (n.) The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See
   Manila hemp under Manila.

   Abacinate (v. t.) To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the
   eyes.

   Abacination (n.) The act of abacinating.

   Abaciscus (n.) One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement;
   an abaculus.

   Abacist (n.) One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

   Aback (adv.) Toward the back or rear; backward.

   Aback (adv.) Behind; in the rear.

   Aback (adv.) Backward against the mast; -- said of the sails when
   pressed by the wind.

   Aback (n.) An abacus.

   Abactinal (a.) Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth
   in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal.

   Abaction (n.) Stealing cattle on a large scale.

   Abactor (n.) One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds
   or droves.

   Abaculi (pl. ) of Abaculus

   Abaculus (n.) A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of
   various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.

   Abacuses (pl. ) of Abacus

   Abaci (pl. ) of Abacus

   Abacus (n.) A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for
   drawing, calculating, etc.

   Abacus (n.) A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing
   arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in
   grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens,
   etc. It is still employed in China.

   Abacus (n.) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a
   column, immediately under the architrave. See Column.

   Abacus (n.) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic
   work.

   Abacus (n.) A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated
   compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of
   cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.

   Abada (n.) The rhinoceros.

   Abaddon (n.) The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same
   as Apollyon and Asmodeus.

   Abaddon (n.) Hell; the bottomless pit.

   Abaft (prep.) Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.

   Abaft (adv.) Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

   Abaisance (n.) Obeisance.

   Abaiser (n.) Ivory black or animal charcoal.

   Abaist (p. p.) Abashed; confounded; discomfited.

   Abalienate (v. t.) To transfer the title of from one to another; to
   alienate.

   Abalienate (v. t.) To estrange; to withdraw.

   Abalienate (v. t.) To cause alienation of (mind).

   Abalienation (n.) The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.

   Abalone (n.) A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is
   lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the
   sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California,
   clinging closely to the rocks.

   Aband (v. t.) To abandon.

   Aband (v. t.) To banish; to expel.

   Abandoned (imp. & p. p.) of Abandon

   Abandoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abandon

   Abandon (v. t.) To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject.

   Abandon (v. t.) To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to
   renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to
   desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit;
   to surrender.

   Abandon (v. t.) Reflexively: To give (one's self) up without attempt at
   self-control; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly; -- often in a bad
   sense.

   Abandon (v. t.) To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured
   person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a
   policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured
   against.

   Abandon (v.) Abandonment; relinquishment.

   Abandon (n.) A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from
   artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

   Abandoned (a.) Forsaken, deserted.

   Abandoned (a.) Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked,
   or sinning without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned
   villain.

   Abandonedly (adv.) Unrestrainedly.

   Abandonee (n.) One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

   Abandoner (n.) One who abandons.

   Abandonment (n.) The act of abandoning, or the state of being
   abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.

   Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters
   of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a
   peril insured against.

   Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as
   to mill site, etc.

   Abandonment (n.) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound
   by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

   Abandonment (n.) Careless freedom or ease; abandon.

   Abandum (n.) Anything forfeited or confiscated.

   Abanet (n.) See Abnet.

   Abanga (n.) A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds
   of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

   Abannation (n.) Alt. of Abannition

   Abannition (n.) Banishment.

   Abarticulation (n.) Articulation, usually that kind of articulation
   which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.

   Abased (imp. & p. p.) of Abase

   Abasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abase

   Abase (a.) To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the
   eye.

   Abase (a.) To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office,
   condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble;
   to degrade.

   Abased (a.) Lowered; humbled.

   Abased (a.) Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of
   the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

   Abasedly (adv.) Abjectly; downcastly.

   Abasement (n.) The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state
   of being abased or humbled; humiliation.

   Abaser (n.) He who, or that which, abases.

   Abashed (imp. & p. p.) of Abash

   Abashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abash

   Abash (v. t.) To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or
   confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or
   inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.

   Abashedly (adv.) In an abashed manner.

   Abashment (n.) The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

   Abassi (n.) Alt. of Abassis

   Abassis (n.) A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

   Abatable (a.) Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or
   nuisance.

   Abated (imp. & p. p.) of Abate

   Abating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abate

   Abate (v. t.) To beat down; to overthrow.

   Abate (v. t.) To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state,
   number, or degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; to
   cut short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.

   Abate (v. t.) To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.

   Abate (v. t.) To blunt.

   Abate (v. t.) To reduce in estimation; to deprive.

   Abate (v. t.) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;
   as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ.

   Abate (v. t.) To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated
   entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.

   Abate (v. t.) To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as,
   pain abates, a storm abates.

   Abate (v. t.) To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to
   fail; as, a writ abates.

   Abate (n.) Abatement.

   Abatement (n.) The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a
   lessening, diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as,
   the abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

   Abatement (n.) The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of
   reduction; deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

   Abatement (n.) A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

   Abatement (n.) The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold
   after the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.

   Abater (n.) One who, or that which, abates.

   Abatis (n.) Alt. of Abattis

   Abattis (n.) A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of
   whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the
   enemy.

   Abatised (a.) Provided with an abatis.

   Abator (n.) One who abates a nuisance.

   Abator (n.) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the
   death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.

   Abattoirs (pl. ) of Abattoir

   Abattoir (n.) A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

   Abature (n.) Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing
   through them.

   Abatvoix (n.) The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

   Abawed (p. p.) Astonished; abashed.

   Abaxial (a.) Alt. of Abaxile

   Abaxile (a.) Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.

   Abay (n.) Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.

   Abb (n.) Among weavers, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for
   the abb.

   Abba (n.) Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and
   Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to
   the patriarch.

   Abbacies (pl. ) of Abbacy

   Abbacy (n.) The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

   Abbatial (a.) Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

   Abbatical (a.) Abbatial.

   Abbe (n.) The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of
   an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one
   vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

   Abbess (n.) A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of
   nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have
   over the monks. See Abbey.

   Abbeys (pl. ) of Abbey

   Abbey (n.) A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded
   from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic
   building or buildings.

   Abbey (n.) The church of a monastery.

   Abbot (n.) The superior or head of an abbey.

   Abbot (n.) One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys.

   Abbotship (n.) The state or office of an abbot.

   Abbreviated (imp. & p. p.) of Abbreviate

   Abbreviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abbreviate

   Abbreviate (v. t.) To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce
   by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.

   Abbreviate (v. t.) To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

   Abbreviate (a.) Abbreviated; abridged; shortened.

   Abbreviate (a.) Having one part relatively shorter than another or than
   the ordinary type.

   Abbreviate (n.) An abridgment.

   Abbreviated (a.) Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

   Abbreviation (n.) The act of shortening, or reducing.

   Abbreviation (n.) The result of abbreviating; an abridgment.

   Abbreviation (n.) The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by
   contraction and omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or
   phrase of which they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for
   United States of America.

   Abbreviation (n.) One dash, or more, through the stem of a note,
   dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or
   demi-semiquavers.

   Abbreviator (n.) One who abbreviates or shortens.

   Abbreviator (n.) One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal
   court whose duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition,
   or reply of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into
   official form.

   Abbreviatory (a.) Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening;
   abridging.

   Abbreviature (n.) An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form.

   Abbreviature (n.) An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.

   Abb wool () See Abb.

   A B C () The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole
   alphabet.

   A B C () A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of
   reading.

   A B C () The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of
   finance.

   Abdal (n.) A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.

   Abderian (a.) Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant
   merriment.

   Abderite (n.) An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace.

   Abdest (n.) Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a
   Mohammedan rite.

   Abdicable (a.) Capable of being abdicated.

   Abdicant (a.) Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.

   Abdicant (n.) One who abdicates.

   Abdicated (imp. & p. p.) of Abdicate

   Abdicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abdicate

   Abdicate (v. t.) To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to
   withdraw definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office,
   station, dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.

   Abdicate (v. t.) To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a
   trust, duty, right, etc.

   Abdicate (v. t.) To reject; to cast off.

   Abdicate (v. t.) To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his
   child; to disown; to disinherit.

   Abdicate (v. i.) To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high
   office or dignity.

   Abdication (n.) The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high
   office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary
   renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne,
   government, power, authority.

   Abdicative (a.) Causing, or implying, abdication.

   Abdicator (n.) One who abdicates.

   Abditive (a.) Having the quality of hiding.

   Abditory (n.) A place for hiding or preserving articles of value.

   Abdomen (n.) The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and
   the pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the
   peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In
   man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the
   commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic
   cavity.

   Abdomen (n.) The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in
   insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.

   Abdominal (a.) Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the
   abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.

   Abdominal (a.) Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as,
   abdominal fishes.

   Abdominals (pl. ) of Abdominal

   Abdominales (pl. ) of Abdominal

   Abdominal (n.) A fish of the group Abdominales.

   Abdominales (n. pl.) A group including the greater part of fresh-water
   fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen
   behind the pectorals.

   Abdominalia (n. pl.) A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.

   Abdominoscopy (n.) Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal
   disease.

   Abdominothoracic (a.) Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.

   Abdominous (a.) Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.

   Abduced (imp. & p. p.) of Abduce

   Abducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduce

   Abduce (v. t.) To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a
   different part.

   Abducted (imp. & p. p.) of Abduct

   Abducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduct

   Abduct (v. t.) To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a
   human being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.

   Abduct (v. t.) To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary
   position.

   Abduction (n.) The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a
   carrying away.

   Abduction (n.) The movement which separates a limb or other part from
   the axis, or middle line, of the body.

   Abduction (n.) The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of
   a human being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an
   heiress.

   Abduction (n.) A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is
   evident, but the minor is only probable.

   Abductor (n.) One who abducts.

   Abductor (n.) A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the
   median line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye
   outward.

   Abeam (adv.) On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle
   with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.

   Abear (v. t.) To bear; to behave.

   Abear (v. t.) To put up with; to endure.

   Abearance (n.) Behavior.

   Abearing (n.) Behavior.

   Abecedarian (n.) One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.

   Abecedarian (n.) One engaged in teaching the alphabet.

   Abecedarian (a.) Alt. of Abecedary

   Abecedary (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the
   alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary.

   Abecedary (n.) A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything.

   Abed (adv.) In bed, or on the bed.

   Abed (adv.) To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is,
   delivered of a child).

   Abegge () Same as Aby.

   Abele (n.) The white poplar (Populus alba).

   Abelian (n.) Alt. of Abelonian

   Abelite (n.) Alt. of Abelonian

   Abelonian (n.) One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St.
   Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after
   the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.

   Abelmosk (n.) An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus --
   moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose
   musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes
   called musk mallow.

   Aber-de-vine (n.) The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green
   and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.

   Aberr (v. i.) To wander; to stray.

   Aberrance (n.) Alt. of Aberrancy

   Aberrancy (n.) State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way;
   deviation from truth, rectitude, etc.

   Aberrant (a.) Wandering; straying from the right way.

   Aberrant (a.) Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional;
   abnormal.

   Aberrate (v. i.) To go astray; to diverge.

   Aberration (n.) The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth
   or moral rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type.

   Aberration (n.) A partial alienation of reason.

   Aberration (n.) A small periodical change of position in the stars and
   other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of
   light and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when
   the observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and daily or
   diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when
   greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''.
   Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the motion
   of the planet relative to the earth.

   Aberration (n.) The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror,
   of rays of light emanating from one and the same point, or the
   deviation of such rays from a single focus; called spherical
   aberration, when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such
   form giving different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic
   aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored rays
   of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

   Aberration (n.) The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not
   appropriate for it.

   Aberration (n.) The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing
   of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

   Aberrational (a.) Characterized by aberration.

   Aberuncate (v. t.) To weed out.

   Aberuncator (n.) A weeding machine.

   Abetted (imp. & p. p.) of Abet

   Abetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abet

   Abet (v. t.) To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used
   in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet
   one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection.

   Abet (v. t.) To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good
   sense.

   Abet (v. t.) To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the
   commission of an offense.

   Abet (n.) Act of abetting; aid.

   Abetment (n.) The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime,
   etc.

   Abettal (n.) Abetment.

   Abetter (n.) Alt. of Abettor

   Abettor (n.) One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.

   Abevacuation (n.) A partial evacuation.

   Abeyance (n.) Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.

   Abeyance (n.) Suspension; temporary suppression.

   Abeyancy (n.) Abeyance.

   Abeyant (a.) Being in a state of abeyance.

   Abhal (n.) The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.

   Abhominable (a.) Abominable.

   Abhominal (a.) Inhuman.

   Abhorred (imp. & p. p.) of Abhor

   Abhorring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abhor

   Abhor (v. t.) To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with
   horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest
   to extremity; to loathe.

   Abhor (v. t.) To fill with horror or disgust.

   Abhor (v. t.) To protest against; to reject solemnly.

   Abhor (v. i.) To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be
   contrary or averse; -- with

   Abhorrence (n.) Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter
   dislike.

   Abhorrency (n.) Abhorrence.

   Abhorrent (a.) Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence;
   loathing; hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.

   Abhorrent (a.) Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; --
   followed by to.

   Abhorrent (a.) Detestable.

   Abhorrently (adv.) With abhorrence.

   Abhorrer (n.) One who abhors.

   Abhorrible (a.) Detestable.

   Abhorring (n.) Detestation.

   Abhorring (n.) Object of abhorrence.

   Abib (n.) The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,
   corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this
   month was called Nisan.

   Abidance (n.) The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance
   (with).

   Abode (imp. & p. p.) of Abide

   Abid () of Abide

   Abiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abide

   Abide (v. i.) To wait; to pause; to delay.

   Abide (v. i.) To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to
   dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at
   or in before a place.

   Abide (v. i.) To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to
   continue; to remain.

   Abide (v. t.) To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for;
   as, I abide my time.

   Abide (v. t.) To endure; to sustain; to submit to.

   Abide (v. t.) To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.

   Abide (v. t.) To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer
   for.

   Abider (n.) One who abides, or continues.

   Abider (n.) One who dwells; a resident.

   Abiding (a.) Continuing; lasting.

   Abidingly (adv.) Permanently.

   Abies (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the
   balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred
   to this genus.

   Abietene (n.) A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the
   nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.

   Abietic (a.) Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as,
   abietic acid, called also sylvic acid.

   Abietin (n.) Alt. of Abietine

   Abietine (n.) A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada
   balsam. It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but
   soluble in alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic
   acid, and in ether.

   Abietinic (a.) Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.

   Abietite (n.) A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of
   the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata).

   Abigail (n.) A lady's waiting-maid.

   Abiliment (n.) Habiliment.

   Abilities (pl. ) of Ability

   Ability (n.) The quality or state of being able; power to perform,
   whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal;
   capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill,
   resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.

   Abime (n.) Alt. of Abyme

   Abyme (n.) A abyss.

   Abiogenesis (n.) The supposed origination of living organisms from
   lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living
   parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed
   to biogenesis.

   Abiogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to abiogenesis.

   Abiogenist (n.) One who believes that life can be produced
   independently of antecedent.

   Abiogenous (a.) Produced by spontaneous generation.

   Abiogeny (n.) Same as Abiogenesis.

   Abiological (a.) Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.

   Abirritant (n.) A medicine that diminishes irritation.

   Abirritate (v. t.) To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.

   Abirritation (n.) A pathological condition opposite to that of
   irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia.

   Abirritative (a.) Characterized by abirritation or debility.

   Abit () 3d sing. pres. of Abide.

   Abject (a.) Cast down; low-lying.

   Abject (a.) Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded;
   servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune, thoughts.

   Abject (a.) To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower;
   to debase.

   Abject (n.) A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a
   castaway.

   Abjectedness (n.) A very abject or low condition; abjectness.

   Abjection (n.) The act of bringing down or humbling.

   Abjection (n.) The state of being rejected or cast out.

   Abjection (n.) A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement;
   degradation.

   Abjectly (adv.) Meanly; servilely.

   Abjectness (n.) The state of being abject; abasement; meanness;
   servility.

   Abjudge (v. t.) To take away by judicial decision.

   Abjudicate (v. t.) To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge.

   Abjudication (n.) Rejection by judicial sentence.

   Abjugate (v. t.) To unyoke.

   Abjunctive (a.) Exceptional.

   Abjuration (n.) The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon
   oath; as, abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to
   leave the country and never to return.

   Abjuration (n.) A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration
   of heresy.

   Abjuratory (a.) Containing abjuration.

   Abjured (imp. & p. p.) of Abjure

   Abjuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abjure

   Abjure (v. t.) To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to
   abjure allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to
   abandon it forever.

   Abjure (v. t.) To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to
   abandon forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors.

   Abjure (v. i.) To renounce on oath.

   Abjurement (n.) Renunciation.

   Abjurer (n.) One who abjures.

   Ablactate (v. t.) To wean.

   Ablactation (n.) The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young
   beasts from their dam.

   Ablactation (n.) The process of grafting now called inarching, or
   grafting by approach.

   Ablaqueate (v. t.) To lay bare, as the roots of a tree.

   Ablaqueation (n.) The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees
   to expose them to the air and water.

   Ablastemic (a.) Non-germinal.

   Ablation (n.) A carrying or taking away; removal.

   Ablation (n.) Extirpation.

   Ablation (n.) Wearing away; superficial waste.

   Ablatitious (a.) Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force.

   Ablative (a.) Taking away or removing.

   Ablative (a.) Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some
   other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal,
   separation, or taking away.

   Ablative () The ablative case.

   Ablaut (n.) The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus
   indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel
   permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung.

   Ablaze (adv. & a.) On fire; in a blaze, gleaming.

   Ablaze (adv. & a.) In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.

   Able (superl.) Fit; adapted; suitable.

   Able (superl.) Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means,
   or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of
   qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified;
   capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able to work; a
   mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to endure pain;
   able to play on a piano.

   Able (superl.) Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong
   mental powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful;
   as, the ablest man in the senate; an able speech.

   Able (superl.) Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as,
   able to inherit or devise property.

   Able (a.) To make able; to enable; to strengthen.

   Able (a.) To vouch for.

   -able () An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to
   be; fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense;
   as, movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable,
   fit to be blamed; salable.

   Able-bodied (a.) Having a sound, strong body; physically competent;
   robust.

   Ablegate (v. t.) To send abroad.

   Ablegate (n.) A representative of the pope charged with important
   commissions in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a
   newly named cardinal his insignia of office.

   Ablegation (n.) The act of sending abroad.

   Able-minded (a.) Having much intellectual power.

   Ableness (n.) Ability of body or mind; force; vigor.

   Ablepsy (n.) Blindness.

   Abler (a.) comp. of Able.

   Abler (a.) superl. of Able.

   Ablet () Alt. of Ablen

   Ablen () A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.

   Abligate (v. t.) To tie up so as to hinder from.

